README.md, before:

# SIMD-Optimized Bloom Filter

A high-performance, cache-line optimized bloom filter implementation in Go with hardware-accelerated SIMD operations.

## Features

- **SIMD Acceleration**: Automatic detection and usage of AVX2, AVX512, and ARM NEON instructions
- **Cache-Optimized**: 64-byte aligned memory structures for optimal CPU cache performance
- **Hybrid Architecture**: Automatic array/map mode selection for optimal performance across all filter sizes
- **Cross-Platform**: Supports x86_64 (Intel/AMD) and ARM64 architectures
- **High Performance**: 2.2x - 3.5x speedup with SIMD over scalar implementations
- **Memory Efficient**: 95% memory reduction for small filters, unlimited scalability for large filters
- **Zero Allocations**: Array mode operations with zero per-operation allocations for small filters
- **Production Ready**: Comprehensive test suite with 100% correctness validation

## Performance

### SIMD Speedup (Validated)

| Operation | Size | SIMD | Fallback | Speedup |
|-----------|------|------|----------|---------|
| PopCount | 1KB | 40 ns | 125 ns | **3.1x** |
| PopCount | 64KB | 2.6 µs | 7.7 µs | **3.0x** |
| VectorOr | 1KB | 10 ns | 37 ns | **3.7x** |
| VectorOr | 64KB | 1.1 µs | 2.4 µs | **2.2x** |
| VectorAnd | 16KB | 162 ns | 502 ns | **3.1x** |

*Benchmarked on Intel i9-13980HX with AVX2*

### Throughput

- **Insertions**: ~2.1M operations/second
- **Lookups**: ~2.2M operations/second
- **False Positive Rate**: 0.05% (target: 1.0%)

### Hybrid Architecture Performance

The filter automatically selects the optimal data structure based on size:

| Filter Size | Mode | Add/Contains | Allocations | Memory Overhead |
|-------------|------|--------------|-------------|-----------------|
| **10K elements** | Array | 55-65 ns/op | 0 B/op | ~720 KB fixed |
| **100K elements** | Array | 55-65 ns/op | 0 B/op | ~720 KB fixed |
| **1M elements** | Map | 450-485 ns/op | 144 B/op | Dynamic |
| **10M+ elements** | Map | 450-520 ns/op | 144 B/op | Dynamic |

**Key Benefits:**
- Small filters (≤10K cache lines): **Zero allocations**, **1.5x faster** than alternatives
- Large filters (>10K cache lines): **Unlimited scalability**, no hard limits
- Automatic mode selection: No configuration needed

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/shaia/go-simd-bloomfilter
```

## Quick Start

```go
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    bf "github.com/shaia/go-simd-bloomfilter"
)

func main() {
    // Create a bloom filter for 1M elements with 1% false positive rate
    filter := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(1000000, 0.01)

    // Add elements
    filter.AddString("example")
    filter.AddUint64(42)
    filter.Add([]byte("custom data"))

    // Check membership
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsString("example"))  // true
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsString("missing"))  // false (probably)
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsUint64(42))         // true

    // Get statistics
    stats := filter.GetCacheStats()
    fmt.Printf("SIMD enabled: %t\n", stats.SIMDEnabled)
    fmt.Printf("Memory usage: %d bytes\n", stats.MemoryUsage)
    fmt.Printf("Load factor: %.2f%%\n", stats.LoadFactor * 100)
}
```

## Package Structure

```
BloomFilter/
├── bloomfilter.go              # Core bloom filter implementation
├── *_test.go                   # Comprehensive test suite
├── internal/simd/              # SIMD package (architecture-specific)
│   ├── simd.go                # Interface & runtime detection
│   ├── fallback.go            # Optimized scalar implementation
│   ├── amd64/                 # x86-64 SIMD (AVX2)
│   │   ├── avx2.go           # Assembly declarations
│   │   └── avx2.s            # AVX2 assembly code
│   └── arm64/                 # ARM64 SIMD (NEON)
│       ├── neon_asm.go       # Assembly declarations
│       └── neon.s            # NEON assembly code
├── docs/examples/             # Usage examples
│   └── basic/example.go      # Complete example
└── Makefile                   # Build automation
```

## Usage Examples

### SIMD Capabilities Detection

```go
// Check what SIMD instructions are available
fmt.Printf("AVX2: %t\n", bf.HasAVX2())       // Intel/AMD x86-64
fmt.Printf("AVX512: %t\n", bf.HasAVX512())   // High-end Intel
fmt.Printf("NEON: %t\n", bf.HasNEON())       // ARM64 (Apple Silicon, etc.)
fmt.Printf("Any SIMD: %t\n", bf.HasSIMD())   // Any acceleration available
```

### Bulk Operations (SIMD Optimized)

```go
filter1 := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(100000, 0.01)
filter2 := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(100000, 0.01)

// Add data to filters...
filter1.AddString("shared")
filter2.AddString("shared")

// Union - combine two filters (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Union(filter2)

// Intersection - keep only common elements (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Intersection(filter2)

// Population count - count set bits (SIMD accelerated)
bitsSet := filter1.PopCount()

// Clear all bits (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Clear()
```

### Statistics and Monitoring

```go
stats := filter.GetCacheStats()

fmt.Printf("Bit count: %d\n", stats.BitCount)
fmt.Printf("Hash functions: %d\n", stats.HashCount)
fmt.Printf("Bits set: %d\n", stats.BitsSet)
fmt.Printf("Load factor: %.4f\n", stats.LoadFactor)
fmt.Printf("Estimated FPP: %.6f\n", stats.EstimatedFPP)
fmt.Printf("Cache lines: %d\n", stats.CacheLineCount)
fmt.Printf("Memory usage: %d bytes\n", stats.MemoryUsage)
fmt.Printf("Memory aligned: %t\n", stats.Alignment == 0)

// SIMD capabilities
fmt.Printf("AVX2: %t, AVX512: %t, NEON: %t\n",
    stats.HasAVX2, stats.HasAVX512, stats.HasNEON)
fmt.Printf("SIMD enabled: %t\n", stats.SIMDEnabled)
```

## Building and Testing

### Build

```bash
# Build the library
make build

# Build example
make example

# Build with version info
make binaries
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
go test -v .

# Run benchmarks
go test -bench=. -benchmem

# Run SIMD comparison benchmarks
go test -bench=BenchmarkSIMDvsScalar -benchtime=2s

# Run correctness tests
go test -run=TestSIMDCorrectness -v

# Run performance validation
go test -run=TestSIMDPerformanceImprovement -v
```

### Run Example

```bash
# Using Makefile
make example

# Or directly
go run docs/examples/basic/example.go
```

## SIMD Implementation Details

### Automatic Platform Detection

The library automatically detects and uses the best available SIMD instructions:

1. **x86_64 (amd64)**:
   - AVX2 (256-bit vectors, 32 bytes at a time)
   - AVX512 (512-bit vectors, 64 bytes at a time) - placeholder
   - Fallback to optimized scalar

2. **ARM64**:
   - NEON (128-bit vectors, 16 bytes at a time)
   - Fallback to optimized scalar

3. **Other architectures**:
   - Optimized scalar implementation using bit manipulation

### Vectorized Operations

All critical operations are SIMD-accelerated:

- **PopCount**: Count set bits using vector instructions
- **VectorOr**: Bitwise OR for Union operations
- **VectorAnd**: Bitwise AND for Intersection operations
- **VectorClear**: Fast memory zeroing

### Assembly Implementation

- **AMD64**: Hand-written AVX2 assembly in [internal/simd/amd64/avx2.s](internal/simd/amd64/avx2.s)
- **ARM64**: Hand-written NEON assembly in [internal/simd/arm64/neon.s](internal/simd/arm64/neon.s)
- Clean separation between Go and assembly code
- Platform-specific build tags ensure correct compilation

## API Reference

### Core Types

```go
type CacheOptimizedBloomFilter struct {
    // Internal fields (cache-line aligned)
}

type CacheStats struct {
    BitCount       uint64   // Total bits in filter
    HashCount      uint32   // Number of hash functions
    BitsSet        uint64   // Current bits set
    LoadFactor     float64  // Ratio of bits set
    EstimatedFPP   float64  // Estimated false positive probability
    CacheLineCount uint64   // Number of cache lines
    CacheLineSize  int      // Size of cache line (64 bytes)
    MemoryUsage    uint64   // Total memory used
    Alignment      uintptr  // Memory alignment offset (0 = perfect)
    HasAVX2        bool     // AVX2 available
    HasAVX512      bool     // AVX512 available
    HasNEON        bool     // NEON available
    SIMDEnabled    bool     // Any SIMD enabled
}
```

### Constructor

```go
// Creates a new bloom filter optimized for cache performance
func NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(
    expectedElements uint64,    // Expected number of elements
    falsePositiveRate float64,  // Target false positive rate (0.0-1.0)
) *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter
```

### Core Methods

```go
// Add operations
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Add(data []byte)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) AddString(s string)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) AddUint64(n uint64)

// Contains operations
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Contains(data []byte) bool
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) ContainsString(s string) bool
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) ContainsUint64(n uint64) bool

// Bulk operations (SIMD accelerated)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Union(other *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) error
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Intersection(other *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) error
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Clear()
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) PopCount() uint64

// Statistics
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) GetCacheStats() CacheStats
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) EstimatedFPP() float64
```

### Global Functions

```go
// SIMD capability detection
func HasAVX2() bool    // Check for AVX2 support
func HasAVX512() bool  // Check for AVX512 support
func HasNEON() bool    // Check for NEON support
func HasSIMD() bool    // Check for any SIMD support
```

## Architecture Support

| Architecture | SIMD Support | Status |
|--------------|--------------|--------|
| x86_64 (Intel/AMD) | AVX2 | Implemented & Tested |
| x86_64 (Intel/AMD) | AVX512 | Placeholder |
| ARM64 (Apple Silicon) | NEON | Implemented |
| ARM64 (Other) | NEON | Implemented |
| Other | Scalar | Optimized Fallback |

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please ensure:

1. All tests pass: `go test -v .`
2. Benchmarks show improvement: `go test -bench=.`
3. Code is formatted: `go fmt ./...`
4. SIMD correctness is validated: `go test -run=TestSIMDCorrectness`

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Credits

- SIMD optimizations inspired by modern CPU architectures
- Cache-line optimization techniques from high-performance computing
- Bloom filter algorithm by Burton Howard Bloom (1970)

Commit message:

Add clear use case guidance and optimal filter size recommendations
Add dedicated 'Best Use Cases' section to README to clearly communicate
the library's sweet spot and help users make informed decisions.

Changes:
- Added prominent note in introduction about optimization focus
- Added 'Best Use Cases' section after Installation
- Listed specific use cases for array mode (10K-100K elements)
- Listed suitable use cases for map mode (1M+ elements)
- Added 'Consider Alternatives For' section for transparency
- Included concrete examples (microservices, rate limiting, etc.)

Key Messages:
✓ Optimized for small to medium filters (10K-100K elements)
✓ Array mode: Zero allocations, 1.5x faster than alternatives
✓ Best for: microservices, rate limiting, session management
✓ Also scales: Unlimited size with map mode for large datasets
✓ Honest about trade-offs: Mention when alternatives may be better

This helps users quickly determine if this library fits their use case
and sets appropriate expectations for performance characteristics.

README.md, after:

# SIMD-Optimized Bloom Filter

A high-performance, cache-line optimized bloom filter implementation in Go with hardware-accelerated SIMD operations.

**Optimized for small to medium filters (10K-100K elements)** with zero-allocation array mode. Scales to billions of elements with dynamic map mode.

## Features

- **SIMD Acceleration**: Automatic detection and usage of AVX2, AVX512, and ARM NEON instructions
- **Cache-Optimized**: 64-byte aligned memory structures for optimal CPU cache performance
- **Hybrid Architecture**: Automatic array/map mode selection for optimal performance across all filter sizes
- **Cross-Platform**: Supports x86_64 (Intel/AMD) and ARM64 architectures
- **High Performance**: 2.2x - 3.5x speedup with SIMD over scalar implementations
- **Memory Efficient**: 95% memory reduction for small filters, unlimited scalability for large filters
- **Zero Allocations**: Array mode operations with zero per-operation allocations for small filters
- **Production Ready**: Comprehensive test suite with 100% correctness validation

## Performance

### SIMD Speedup (Validated)

| Operation | Size | SIMD | Fallback | Speedup |
|-----------|------|------|----------|---------|
| PopCount | 1KB | 40 ns | 125 ns | **3.1x** |
| PopCount | 64KB | 2.6 µs | 7.7 µs | **3.0x** |
| VectorOr | 1KB | 10 ns | 37 ns | **3.7x** |
| VectorOr | 64KB | 1.1 µs | 2.4 µs | **2.2x** |
| VectorAnd | 16KB | 162 ns | 502 ns | **3.1x** |

*Benchmarked on Intel i9-13980HX with AVX2*

### Throughput

- **Insertions**: ~2.1M operations/second
- **Lookups**: ~2.2M operations/second
- **False Positive Rate**: 0.05% (target: 1.0%)

### Hybrid Architecture Performance

The filter automatically selects the optimal data structure based on size:

| Filter Size | Mode | Add/Contains | Allocations | Memory Overhead |
|-------------|------|--------------|-------------|-----------------|
| **10K elements** | Array | 55-65 ns/op | 0 B/op | ~720 KB fixed |
| **100K elements** | Array | 55-65 ns/op | 0 B/op | ~720 KB fixed |
| **1M elements** | Map | 450-485 ns/op | 144 B/op | Dynamic |
| **10M+ elements** | Map | 450-520 ns/op | 144 B/op | Dynamic |

**Key Benefits:**
- Small filters (≤10K cache lines): **Zero allocations**, **1.5x faster** than alternatives
- Large filters (>10K cache lines): **Unlimited scalability**, no hard limits
- Automatic mode selection: No configuration needed

## Installation

```bash
go get github.com/shaia/go-simd-bloomfilter
```

## Best Use Cases

This library is **optimized for small to medium-sized filters** where performance and memory efficiency are critical:

**Ideal For (Array Mode - 10K to 100K elements):**
- **Microservices**: Per-request or per-session filtering
- **Rate limiting**: Token buckets, request deduplication
- **Session management**: User session tracking, authentication
- **Cache keys**: Bloom filter for cache existence checks
- **Real-time streaming**: Per-connection or per-stream filters
- **API gateways**: Request deduplication, idempotency checks

**Also Suitable For (Map Mode - 1M+ elements):**
- **Large-scale deduplication**: Millions of elements with unlimited scalability
- **Data processing pipelines**: Batch processing with large datasets
- **Distributed systems**: No hard size limits, grows as needed

**Consider Alternatives For:**
- **Very large filters (>10M elements)** where simplicity is preferred over features
- **Extremely low-latency requirements** (willf/bloom may be 3-5x faster for huge filters)

**Performance Summary:**
- **Small filters**: 1.5x faster than alternatives, zero allocations
- **Large filters**: Competitive performance, unlimited scalability
- **SIMD operations**: 2-4x faster for bulk operations (Union, Intersection, PopCount)

## Quick Start

```go
package main

import (
    "fmt"
    bf "github.com/shaia/go-simd-bloomfilter"
)

func main() {
    // Create a bloom filter for 1M elements with 1% false positive rate
    filter := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(1000000, 0.01)

    // Add elements
    filter.AddString("example")
    filter.AddUint64(42)
    filter.Add([]byte("custom data"))

    // Check membership
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsString("example"))  // true
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsString("missing"))  // false (probably)
    fmt.Println(filter.ContainsUint64(42))         // true

    // Get statistics
    stats := filter.GetCacheStats()
    fmt.Printf("SIMD enabled: %t\n", stats.SIMDEnabled)
    fmt.Printf("Memory usage: %d bytes\n", stats.MemoryUsage)
    fmt.Printf("Load factor: %.2f%%\n", stats.LoadFactor * 100)
}
```

## Package Structure

```
BloomFilter/
├── bloomfilter.go              # Core bloom filter implementation
├── *_test.go                   # Comprehensive test suite
├── internal/simd/              # SIMD package (architecture-specific)
│   ├── simd.go                # Interface & runtime detection
│   ├── fallback.go            # Optimized scalar implementation
│   ├── amd64/                 # x86-64 SIMD (AVX2)
│   │   ├── avx2.go           # Assembly declarations
│   │   └── avx2.s            # AVX2 assembly code
│   └── arm64/                 # ARM64 SIMD (NEON)
│       ├── neon_asm.go       # Assembly declarations
│       └── neon.s            # NEON assembly code
├── docs/examples/             # Usage examples
│   └── basic/example.go      # Complete example
└── Makefile                   # Build automation
```

## Usage Examples

### SIMD Capabilities Detection

```go
// Check what SIMD instructions are available
fmt.Printf("AVX2: %t\n", bf.HasAVX2())       // Intel/AMD x86-64
fmt.Printf("AVX512: %t\n", bf.HasAVX512())   // High-end Intel
fmt.Printf("NEON: %t\n", bf.HasNEON())       // ARM64 (Apple Silicon, etc.)
fmt.Printf("Any SIMD: %t\n", bf.HasSIMD())   // Any acceleration available
```

### Bulk Operations (SIMD Optimized)

```go
filter1 := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(100000, 0.01)
filter2 := bf.NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(100000, 0.01)

// Add data to filters...
filter1.AddString("shared")
filter2.AddString("shared")

// Union - combine two filters (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Union(filter2)

// Intersection - keep only common elements (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Intersection(filter2)

// Population count - count set bits (SIMD accelerated)
bitsSet := filter1.PopCount()

// Clear all bits (SIMD accelerated)
filter1.Clear()
```

### Statistics and Monitoring

```go
stats := filter.GetCacheStats()

fmt.Printf("Bit count: %d\n", stats.BitCount)
fmt.Printf("Hash functions: %d\n", stats.HashCount)
fmt.Printf("Bits set: %d\n", stats.BitsSet)
fmt.Printf("Load factor: %.4f\n", stats.LoadFactor)
fmt.Printf("Estimated FPP: %.6f\n", stats.EstimatedFPP)
fmt.Printf("Cache lines: %d\n", stats.CacheLineCount)
fmt.Printf("Memory usage: %d bytes\n", stats.MemoryUsage)
fmt.Printf("Memory aligned: %t\n", stats.Alignment == 0)

// SIMD capabilities
fmt.Printf("AVX2: %t, AVX512: %t, NEON: %t\n",
    stats.HasAVX2, stats.HasAVX512, stats.HasNEON)
fmt.Printf("SIMD enabled: %t\n", stats.SIMDEnabled)
```

## Building and Testing

### Build

```bash
# Build the library
make build

# Build example
make example

# Build with version info
make binaries
```

### Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
go test -v .

# Run benchmarks
go test -bench=. -benchmem

# Run SIMD comparison benchmarks
go test -bench=BenchmarkSIMDvsScalar -benchtime=2s

# Run correctness tests
go test -run=TestSIMDCorrectness -v

# Run performance validation
go test -run=TestSIMDPerformanceImprovement -v
```

### Run Example

```bash
# Using Makefile
make example

# Or directly
go run docs/examples/basic/example.go
```

## SIMD Implementation Details

### Automatic Platform Detection

The library automatically detects and uses the best available SIMD instructions:

1. **x86_64 (amd64)**:
   - AVX2 (256-bit vectors, 32 bytes at a time)
   - AVX512 (512-bit vectors, 64 bytes at a time) - placeholder
   - Fallback to optimized scalar

2. **ARM64**:
   - NEON (128-bit vectors, 16 bytes at a time)
   - Fallback to optimized scalar

3. **Other architectures**:
   - Optimized scalar implementation using bit manipulation

### Vectorized Operations

All critical operations are SIMD-accelerated:

- **PopCount**: Count set bits using vector instructions
- **VectorOr**: Bitwise OR for Union operations
- **VectorAnd**: Bitwise AND for Intersection operations
- **VectorClear**: Fast memory zeroing

### Assembly Implementation

- **AMD64**: Hand-written AVX2 assembly in [internal/simd/amd64/avx2.s](internal/simd/amd64/avx2.s)
- **ARM64**: Hand-written NEON assembly in [internal/simd/arm64/neon.s](internal/simd/arm64/neon.s)
- Clean separation between Go and assembly code
- Platform-specific build tags ensure correct compilation

## API Reference

### Core Types

```go
type CacheOptimizedBloomFilter struct {
    // Internal fields (cache-line aligned)
}

type CacheStats struct {
    BitCount       uint64   // Total bits in filter
    HashCount      uint32   // Number of hash functions
    BitsSet        uint64   // Current bits set
    LoadFactor     float64  // Ratio of bits set
    EstimatedFPP   float64  // Estimated false positive probability
    CacheLineCount uint64   // Number of cache lines
    CacheLineSize  int      // Size of cache line (64 bytes)
    MemoryUsage    uint64   // Total memory used
    Alignment      uintptr  // Memory alignment offset (0 = perfect)
    HasAVX2        bool     // AVX2 available
    HasAVX512      bool     // AVX512 available
    HasNEON        bool     // NEON available
    SIMDEnabled    bool     // Any SIMD enabled
}
```

### Constructor

```go
// Creates a new bloom filter optimized for cache performance
func NewCacheOptimizedBloomFilter(
    expectedElements uint64,    // Expected number of elements
    falsePositiveRate float64,  // Target false positive rate (0.0-1.0)
) *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter
```

### Core Methods

```go
// Add operations
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Add(data []byte)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) AddString(s string)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) AddUint64(n uint64)

// Contains operations
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Contains(data []byte) bool
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) ContainsString(s string) bool
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) ContainsUint64(n uint64) bool

// Bulk operations (SIMD accelerated)
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Union(other *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) error
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Intersection(other *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) error
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) Clear()
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) PopCount() uint64

// Statistics
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) GetCacheStats() CacheStats
func (bf *CacheOptimizedBloomFilter) EstimatedFPP() float64
```

### Global Functions

```go
// SIMD capability detection
func HasAVX2() bool    // Check for AVX2 support
func HasAVX512() bool  // Check for AVX512 support
func HasNEON() bool    // Check for NEON support
func HasSIMD() bool    // Check for any SIMD support
```

## Architecture Support

| Architecture | SIMD Support | Status |
|--------------|--------------|--------|
| x86_64 (Intel/AMD) | AVX2 | Implemented & Tested |
| x86_64 (Intel/AMD) | AVX512 | Placeholder |
| ARM64 (Apple Silicon) | NEON | Implemented |
| ARM64 (Other) | NEON | Implemented |
| Other | Scalar | Optimized Fallback |

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please ensure:

1. All tests pass: `go test -v .`
2. Benchmarks show improvement: `go test -bench=.`
3. Code is formatted: `go fmt ./...`
4. SIMD correctness is validated: `go test -run=TestSIMDCorrectness`

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## Credits

- SIMD optimizations inspired by modern CPU architectures
- Cache-line optimization techniques from high-performance computing
- Bloom filter algorithm by Burton Howard Bloom (1970)
